Modify rule S6534: Adapt to LaYC (#2003)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S6534/javascript/rule.adoc

== Why is this an issue?

Numbers in JavaScript are stored as double-precision 64-bit binary format IEEE 754. Like any other number encoding occupying a finite number of bits, it is unable to represent all numbers.

The values are stored using 64 bits in the following form:

* 1 bit for the sign (positive or negative)
* 11 bits for the exponent (2^n^). -1022 &le; n &le; 1023
* 52 bits for the significand (or mantissa)

> // When images can be added, uncomment the block

Reviewer: fyi this exact image will not be used, we will need to create our own copy of it

//image::IEEE_754_Double_Floating_Point_Format.svg.png[]

The actual value of the stored number will be `(-1)^sign^ * (1 + significand) * 2 ^exponent^`

Given this structure, there are limits in both *magnitude* and *precision*.

Due to the 52 bits used for the significand, any arithmetic in need of more precision than 2^-52^ (provided by `Number.EPSILON`) is subject to rounding.

In terms of magnitude, the largest number the 64 bits of the format can store is 2^1024^ - 1 (`Number.MAX_VALUE`).

However, because the 52 bits of the significand, only integers between -(2^53^ - 1) (`Number.MIN_SAFE_INTEGER`) and 2^53^ - 1 (`Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER`) can be represented exactly and be properly compared.

> == How to fix it

Reviewer: Here I would first speak about bigint and show noncompliant and compliant examples
Then speak about precisison and show noncompliant and compliant examples for it.

> JavaScript provides the helper function `Number.isSafeInteger()` to test if a number is between the safe limits.

Reviewer: does this function work both in precision and magnitute? If yes, could you mention that here?

> When you need to store a large number, use `BigInt`. `BigInt` and `Number` can be compared between them as usual, but pay attention that operations (`+` `pass:[*]` `-` `%` `pass:[**]`) between both types raise an error unless they are coerced to the same type, so you will have to adapt your code accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you need to store a large number, use `BigInt` values. `BigInt` and `number` can be compared between them as usual (`<`, `<=`, `>`, `>=`, `==` etc). But arithmetic operations (`+` `pass:[*]` `-` `%` `pass:[**]`) between both types raise a `TypeError`. To avoid that, values should be coerced to the same type.
```

> When you need to store a large number, use `BigInt`. `BigInt` and `Number` can be compared between them as usual, but pay attention that operations (`+` `pass:[*]` `-` `%` `pass:[**]`) between both types raise an error unless they are coerced to the same type, so you will have to adapt your code accordingly.

Reviewer: How to create `BigInt`? 
How to coerce?

== How to fix it

When you need to store a large number, use `BigInt()`. Pay attention that operations between `BigInt` and `Number` types raise an error, so you will have to adapt your code accordingly.
JavaScript provides the helper function `Number.isSafeInteger()` to test if a number is between the safe limits.

For numbers with digits after the decimal, it is recommended to use a library to ensure that calculation errors are not introduced by rounding.
When you need to store a large number, use `BigInt`. `BigInt` and `Number` can be compared between them as usual, but pay attention that operations (`+` `pass:[*]` `-` `%` `pass:[**]`) between both types raise an error unless they are coerced to the same type, so you will have to adapt your code accordingly.

> === Code examples

Reviewer: This section should use all these titles

Reviewer: ping

> This code snippet shows some cases where the value stored will be rounded.

Reviewer: I would drop this phrase, not sure what it brings

----

Instead, these could be used:

[source,javascript]
----
const foo = BigInt('2312123211345545367');
// OR
const bar = 2312123211345545367n;

// use a library like decimal.js for storing numbers containing many decimal digits

> import {Decimal} from 'decimal.js';

Reviewer: ```suggestion
import { Decimal } from 'decimal.js';
```

== Why is this an issue?

> Numbers in JavaScript are stored in double-precision 64-bit binary format IEEE 754. Like any other number encoding occupying a finite number of bits, it is unable to represent all numbers.

Reviewer: Can we add link to the format?

The values are stored using 64 bits in the following form:

* 1 bit for the sign (positive or negative)
* 11 bits for the exponent (2^n^). -1022 &le; n &le; 1023
* 52 bits for the significand (or mantissa)

// When images can be added, add image based on to this one
//image::IEEE_754_Double_Floating_Point_Format.svg.png[]

The actual value of the stored number will be `(-1)^sign^ * (1 + significand) * 2 ^exponent^`

Given this structure, there are limits in both *magnitude* and *precision*.

Due to the 52 bits used for the significand, any arithmetic in need of more precision than 2^-52^ (provided by `Number.EPSILON`) is subject to rounding.

In terms of magnitude, the largest number the 64 bits of the format can store is 2^1024^ - 1 (`Number.MAX_VALUE`).

However, because the 52 bits of the significand, only integers between -(2^53^ - 1) (`Number.MIN_SAFE_INTEGER`) and 2^53^ - 1 (`Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER`) can be represented exactly and be properly compared.

[source,javascript]
----

> Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER + 1 === Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER + 2;  //true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER + 1 === Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER + 2;  // true
```

----

JavaScript provides the `BigInt` primitive to represent values which are too large to be represented by the number primitive. BigInts are created by appending `n` to the end of an integer literal, or by calling the `BigInt()` function (without the new operator), with an integer or a string.

[source,javascript]
----
const myBigInt = BigInt(Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER);

> myBigInt + 1n === myBigInt + 2n;  //false

Reviewer: ```suggestion
myBigInt + 1n === myBigInt + 2n;  // false
```

----

== How to fix it

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Magnitude
```

For large numbers, JavaScript provides the helper function `Number.isSafeInteger()` to test if a number is between the safe limits.

> When you need to store a large number, use `BigInt`. `BigInt` and `Number` can be compared between them as usual, but pay attention that operations (`+` `pass:[*]` `-` `%` `pass:[**]`) between both types raise an error unless they are converted to the same type, so you will have to adapt your code accordingly. Use the `BigInt` and `Number` constructors to convert between both types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you need to store a large number, use `BigInt`. `BigInt` and `number` can be compared between them as usual, but pay attention that arithmetic operations (`+`, `pass:[*]`, `-`, `%`, `pass:[**]`) between both types raise an error unless they are converted to the same type. Use the `BigInt` and `Number` functions to convert between both types.
```

Reviewer: Why did you remove the mention of comparison?

Reviewer: Why don't you mention `123n` syntax?

Author: I didn't remove the mention of the comparison. 
Also, 123n syntax is explained in first tab

[source,javascript]
----
const myNumber = Number(myBigInt);
const myBigInt = BigInt(myNumber);
----

> Be careful converting values back and forth, however, as the precision of a BigInt value may be lost when it is coerced to a Number value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Be careful converting values back and forth, however, as the precision of a `BigInt` value may be lost when it is coerced to a `number` value.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Precision
```

When in need of more decimal precision, it is recommended to use a dedicated library to ensure that calculation errors are not introduced by rounding.

> [source,javascript]

Reviewer: I think we need to split code samples as we did with description (magnitude vs precision) and use Noncompliant/Compliant samples

== Why is this an issue?

> Numbers in JavaScript are stored as double-precision 64-bit binary format IEEE 754. Like any other number encoding occupying a finite number of bits, it is unable to represent all numbers, as trying to represent an infinite amount of numbers with a finite amount of memory is not possible.

Reviewer: Drop the last sentance

The values are stored using 64 bits in the following form:

* 1 bit for the sign (positive or negative)

> * 11 bits for the exponent (2^n^). Range is from -1022 to 1023

Reviewer 2: Is the extra hat in `2^n^` intentional?

Reviewer 2: There are more hats like this below.

Author: as mentioned: https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/text/subscript-and-superscript/

> * 11 bits for the exponent (2^n^). Range is from -1022 to 1023

Reviewer: `-1022 <= n <= 1023`

> * 52 bits for the significand

Reviewer 2: Just asking but, is `sigificand` a popular term? I am more familiar with the term `mantissa`.

Author: not sure which one is better, 

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Significand

they seem to be synonyms

> * 52 bits for the significand

Reviewer: significand (or mantissa)

* 1 bit for the sign (positive or negative)
* 11 bits for the exponent (2^n^). Range is from -1022 to 1023
* 52 bits for the significand

> == How to fix it

Reviewer: Keep this section

> `Number = (-1)^sign^ * (1 + significand) * 2 ^exponent^`

Reviewer: move to the previous line with text  and drop `Number =`

> Given this structure, there are some limits in both *magnitude* and *precision*.

Reviewer: drop `some`

Due to the 52 bits used for the significand, any arithmetic in need of more precision than 2^-52^ (provided by `Number.EPSILON`) is subject to rounding.

In terms of magnitude, the largest number the 64 bits of the format can store is 2^1024^ - 1 (`Number.MAX_VALUE`).

However, because the 52 bits of the significand, only integers between -(2^53^ - 1) (`Number.MIN_SAFE_INTEGER`) and 2^53^ - 1 (`Number.MAX_SAFE_INTEGER`) can be represented exactly and be properly compared.

> Javascript provides the helper function `Number.isSafeInteger()` to test if a number is between the safe limits.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
JavaScript provides the helper function `Number.isSafeInteger()` to test if a number is between the safe limits.
```

> When you need to store a large number, use `BigInt`. `BigInt` and `Number` can be compared between them as usual, but pay attention that operations(`+` `pass:[*]` `-` `%` `pass:[**]`) between both types raise an error unless they are coerced to the same type, so you will have to adapt your code accordingly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When you need to store a large number, use `BigInt`. `BigInt` and `Number` can be compared between them as usual, but pay attention that operations (`+` `pass:[*]` `-` `%` `pass:[**]`) between both types raise an error unless they are coerced to the same type, so you will have to adapt your code accordingly.
```

=== Documentation

> * https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number#number_encoding[MDN Number encoding]

Reviewer: I suggest to put MDN at the end, so that it's clear it has nothing to do with the language feature.
```suggestion
* https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number#number_encoding[Number encoding (MDN)]
```

WDYT?

=== Documentation

* https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Number#number_encoding[MDN - Number encoding]
* https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/BigInt[MDN - BigInt]

> * https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double-precision_floating-point_format[Wikipedia Double-precision floating-point format]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Double-precision_floating-point_format[Wikipedia - Double-precision floating-point format]
```
